we want to get right to the latest
developments on the corona virus
pandemic there are now over 156 thousand
cases confirmed across the globe and
more than 5,800 deaths Spain is now in
lockdown France and Israel are closing
restaurants and other non-essential
businesses and here at home the numbers
continue to climb take a look at this
map from last week and now there are
more than 2,900 known cases in 49 states
and Washington DC that's every state
except West Virginia at least 59 deaths
have been reported our fight against an
invisible enemy has turned life in
America upside down mass gatherings put
on hold almost 26 million students are
out of school and more and more of us
are working from home as our nation
faces this crisis our goal each day is
to provide you with reliable information
to separate rumor from fact to
understand the true scope of this
pandemic and what we should do to
protect ourselves our families our
neighbors but to be blunt
your ability to make informed decisions
is impaired when we hear things like
this we have contained this I won't say
air type of pretty close to airtight
when you have 15 people and the 15
within a couple of days is going to be
down to close to zero that's a pretty
good job we've done if this is a flu
this is like a flu anybody that needs a
test gets a test if an American's coming
back or anybody's coming back we're
testing we have a tremendous testing
setup where people coming in have to be
tested each of those statements were
either highly misleading or flatly wrong
and further misinformation in a
prime-time oval office address this week
caused more confusion this is a time we
need to be able to trust the information
coming from the federal government and
when any inaccurate information impairs
our ability to understand what is
happening and to do what is needed to
halt the spread of this disease this is
not a matter of political spin this is
now a matter of life and death health
and sickness this morning we will try to
get more clarity
our first guest joins me now
Anthony foul a doctor Falchi thank you
for being here good to be with you now
you have said that there are gonna be
more coronavirus cases and you've talked
about flattening the curve we've all
seen the graph let's take another look
at the graph now trying to slow the
spread of the disease but one thing that
that graph is missing is numbers right
and I know you don't have precise
numbers but can you try to help us
understand when will life get back to
normal when how long does this last you
know it's going to be a matter of you
know several weeks too few months for
sure if you look at the dynamics of how
outbreak curves go you just need to take
a look at China and take a look at South
Korea right now with China they went to
their peak and they are coming down
right now there were just a day or so
ago 11 new cases in China which is
miniscule compared to where it was
Korea is starting to flatten and maybe
come down a little if you look at that
bracket all of that was a couple of
months a month and a half for China and
about the same although you can't
predict accurately the way you interfere
with that and not only diminish the peak
of the curb but even perhaps the
duration depends on the effectiveness in
which you do the kinds of controls that
we've been talking about the containment
and the mitigation so do we think that
Korea do we think China ar-ar-ar through
this largely is it largely over you know
it's over for now and hopefully for good
but the one thing that we have to keep
an eye on on John is that China really
dramatically did what we call social
distancing they just shut down the
country as they start getting back to
normal personal interaction I hope we
don't see the second blip but it's
possible so we're looking you know
favorably at the fact that China is
coming down but we also want to look
carefully to see what happens when they
resume normal life and that's one of the
things that we're interested in hope
Lidl stay down but it possibly could
come back up that flatten curve suggests
that by flattening the curve by doing
all the mitigation it actually lasts
longer my and it looks like roughly I
mean is it the same number of people
ultimately get infected no no not at all
as a matter of fact the way the way the
curve is shown on on the graph you
showed it might look like the area under
the curve is the same that that that
would be misleading John it really is
the peak is less and and the numbers
total would be less so you you are
probably the most trusted person on this
do you are you confident that the
federal government is doing everything
that needs to be done right now to
contain this you know right now John yes
absolutely and and the fact is what
would I like to see is when people look
at what we're doing and say you're
overreacting
for me the dynamics and the history of
outbreaks is you were never where you
think you are with it with if you think
you're in line with the outbreak you're
already three weeks behind so you got to
be almost overreacting a bit to keep up
with it the New York Times had a story
this weekend about the worst case
scenarios and some projections that were
they said presented at the CDC about a
month about a month ago let's take a
look at these 160 million to 214 million
people infected in the United States 2.4
million to 21 million people
hospitalized 200,000 deaths perhaps as
much as 1.7 million deaths first of all
what do you make of those so whenever
people model and take a model which
that's exactly what that is a model a
model is only as good as the assumptions
you put into them right so when you do a
model you say what happens if it's the
lowest sits here and what happens is the
highest the worst-case scenario is
either you do nothing or your mitigation
and containments don't succeed so
although that's possible it is unlikely
if we do the kinds of things that we're
essentially outlining right now so so so
tell me on what
is the range of possibility or how many
people do you think but based on what
we're doing based on what you know and
your expertise in this what are we
talking about I don't think it's gonna
be that worse because I think what we're
doing is gonna have an effect and for
example the president's decision to to
essentially have a major blocking of
travel from China that already had an
effect of not seeding the way in Europe
Italy didn't do that and my I feel so
badly because I have so many friends
there they're getting hit hard what
we're doing now with the other travel
restrictions so you block infections
from coming in and then within is when
you have containment and mitigation and
that's the reason why the kinds of
things we're doing that may seem like an
overreaction will keep us away from that
worst-case scenario so are we prepared
from whatever you think the worst case
scenario would be is our health care
system I mean I saw Seema Verma this
week say that there are about 13,000
respirators in stockpile 13 how isn't
one we're looking at oscillators
vince'll ventilators I'm sorry
ventilator right okay that that doesn't
sound that doesn't sound like anywhere
near enough are we prepared yeah that
that may not be enough if we have a
situation where we really have a lot of
cases but but but John let's make sure
people need to understand that things
will get worse before they get better
what we're trying to do is to make sure
they don't get to the worst-case
scenario that's what we need to do and
look at the way life is starting to stop
here but we see different localities
doing different things some cities are
banning Ganner
or banning gatherings over 250 some 500
what what what should be done should we
be seeing restaurants shut down like
we're seeing happening in in Israel and
Spain right now should should should we
basically be in a shutdown mode you know
what we should be doing is absolutely
making it much much different not
business as usual you've got to just
chill down some areas of the country
particularly the areas where it's clear
you're having a lot of community spread
maybe more vigorous and shutting things
down right now people are taking things
on their own no matter how you save 50
people
is the limit and then people say no no
we don't want anybody we're just gonna
shut down things and the number doesn't
matter does it what matters is how how
densely exactly exactly so what we
really got to do is we got it as much as
possible but but we don't want to lose
sight of the fact that when you're doing
that interpersonal interaction that
you're trying to calm down and you would
have a word you want chill slow down we
got to be make sure that the vulnerable
ones are the ones we protect the
vulnerable the elderly and those with
underlying conditions those are the
people that if you say should you kind
of stay in your house and not go to a
movie not go to a restaurant for the
most part maybe most people shouldn't do
that but the ones who really shouldn't
do that are the vulnerable ones all
those living with them all right yeah
exactly so what about travel
restrictions are we gonna see domestic
travel restrictions and we know we have
hot spots we have Washington State we
have parts of California in New York
should there be travel you know when we
sit around with the task force we talk
about every possibility travel
restrictions within the country have not
been seriously discussed I mean they've
been discussed but not seriously
discussed I don't see that right now in
the immediate future but remember we are
very open-minded about whatever it takes
to preserve the health of the American
public I'm not a consideration now but
possible one final question to you on
this question of social distancing let's
take a look at the press conference in
the Rose Garden on Friday we saw the
president's been noted shaking hands
with with with many of the executives we
also saw you there you are touching the
microphone and then touching your face
just just okay tell me there are two
things there John I'm working on getting
the boss
to do this I may not be successful but
we're working on it you know sometimes
there are things you have to do if I
didn't put the microphone down and you
would have seen the microphone in front
of my face like that so there's some
what are you doing to protect yourself
I'm you know I'm practicing as much
social distancing as I possibly can I
don't go out I just don't go I mean I I
have a job that's a 19 hour a day job I
have no interest than going to the
movies to restaurants or to getting on a
plane all right dr. Anthony
she thank you for being here thank you
for the work you're doing we appreciate
it good to be with you
hi everyone George Stephanopoulos here
thanks for checking out the ABC News
YouTube channel if you'd like to get
more videos show highlights and watch
live event coverage click on the right
over here to subscribe to our channel
and don't forget to download the ABC
News app for breaking news alerts thanks
for watching